hey guys welcome to my channel today I'm
going to talk to you about TOEFL
preparation plan so as you know I've
passed TOEFL in 2015 and escort 117 out
of 120 and if you still haven't seen the
videos about the methods that I've used
about how the TOEFL experience went
please click the links below and make
sure you watch this video also please
subscribe to my channel because I talked
a lot about getting into foreign
universities learning English and
achieving your goals and I think will be
really interesting for you and I
guarantee I will release a lot of nice
videos today I'm filming mostly for
those people who realize they would need
to pass Storyful but who don't know what
to do first I was in this situation not
so long ago and the first thing you
really need to do is to understand which
score you need to get because sometimes
I hear people who say hey I'm just going
to go and press TOI Phil and see how it
goes and how much I score and maybe then
I would decide whether I could go to an
American University or maybe my score
would be that low that it wouldn't be
worth trying and this is a totally
totally bad approach so what I did I had
a list of universities that I needed to
get into I actually had an Excel
spreadsheet that had canaima be the
university link to the program that I
like the one of the things about the
university was the TOI full score that
they needed because every single
university has its own criteria for
example Ivy League universities would
ask you to have TOI full of 106 and if
you get a hundred and five they wouldn't
accept you because this is a pretty you
know this is a score that they need and
they wouldn't go for less and this is
because the universities are really
competitive but they're also other
universities that will tell you hey if
you don't have Toyo please you know just
take our internal test or attempt our
pathway program and a pathway program is
a program that allows you to go into
foreign university without passing TOEFL
and maybe you would be better off taking
a two months pathway program course and
not just taking TOEFL so really you need
to explore your options
and make sure you really need to best
rifle and here's the score that you need
to get because otherwise the preparation
process wouldn't be motivated by
anything it would be just motivated by
their sake of passing toy phone and this
this doesn't really motivate you and you
know toy phone is not a free thing you
would have to pay around 100 $185 sorry
guys I don't remember how much of course
then you can check it out on ETS org
this is a very useful website it also
tells you not only how much total costs
but also where is the nearest location
that you can pastoral so please make
sure you do that and so yeah you know go
through all of that experience like
passing doraville going to the testing
center sitting there for three hours
really you know intense talking to a
computer this is all really stressful
I'd only you guys to take it twice or
three times so just take your time to
prepare up take three practice tests
before you go and make sure you're
reaching the level that you need because
as I said if you are targeting for high
level universities that if you score one
point less that they need they would
just tell you sorry goodbye so you don't
want that to happen right the second
thing you will need to do is to make
sure your English is appropriate for
getting the score that you need so for
example say you need 90 to score 90 on
TOEFL to get into the University of your
dreams and it's not really easy to find
a TOEFL practice test online because
well you know TOEFL consists of reading
listening speaking an essay and when
reading and listening can be checked
online and speaking and writing they can
be checked online you have to pay
somebody to check where you you know
spoke what you've told or what you've
written so just make sure your level is
appropriate so joyful of eighty to a
hundred be something around intermediate
upper intermediate and so if you're
unsure what level of English you have
I'm going to leave a link to a website
where you can just pass an English
language test and in the end there's
like thirty questions so it wouldn't
take a lot of your time and in the end
it would tell you how much you would be
able to score a joyful so this is really
just to give you an
this doesn't guarantee you will get the
same results in joyful but just purple
is a test that tests your language
breath this is the first purpose of it
and the second purpose is to test how
much you have prepared for TOEFL because
basically that things you would need to
do are very special for TOEFL like you
know speaking when you have to think for
15 seconds and then speak to CSAT for 60
seconds on your topic you would never
discuss with anybody in your life this
is a really toil situation this is no
life situation so the first thing you
need to do I'm sorry this is the second
thing so you need to go online and take
that test and see what's your level like
and maybe you would need more
preparation in terms of general English
so maybe you would need more vocabulary
more grammar more listening practice
maybe you should go abroad for a couple
of weeks and it should be in I would say
American country like USA or Canada
because Doha was an American test and
they would talk to you enjoy home with
an American accent and you're kind of
supposed to speak with an American
accent as well I don't know if it's a
requirement but I had a very strong
British accent and for TOEFL I retrained
myself in order to speak with a slight
American accent because I knew that
people who would be checking my speaking
part would be Americans and these guys I
think it helped well I squared 30 out of
30 you know that if you watch the video
so I think this is something useful and
of course I have been abroad a couple of
times I've been to the States
two times before I went to before I
started to prepare for TOEFL because you
really need to be in the environment in
order to be able to understand people
and know talk to them and develop a
proper accent so once you took the test
and maybe you've seen that your level is
adding a pre intermediate or upper
elementary which is not really what you
need for university you would need to
sit down and maybe hire a tutor for
yourself just to have a higher level of
English um you can actually watch my
video where I tell how to learn English
and the methods that I use because a lot
of progress that I've achieved was
thanks to the work I've done myself
because I said
in Russia and we had a Russian teacher
who told us English and I did a lot
myself in order to be able to learn the
real English that Americans or British
people speak so if your level is
something around as I said like
pre-intermediate maybe it's worthwhile
taking classes at a home country or
going abroad or hiring a skype tutor so
do whatever you want but make sure your
level is appropriate before your sub
preparation for 2 alpha because
otherwise but if you go and prepare for
home with a low level you would be
disappointed you will see the results
that are really low and you would be
discouraged then this has will work
because motivation guys is the most
important thing and when you see the
things are going well you would be more
motivated to achieve more and more the
first thing you have to decide how much
time you're going to spend preparing for
TOEFL so my story I had 10 days
everything because I was ringing for
GMAT and I thought ok 12 oh so much
easier than jima yeah by the way if
you're taking SATs Gerry or GMAT leave
TOEFL for you know last 10 days that you
have because there would be so much
easier easier than these exams so yeah
it only took me 10 days to prepare
because I had an advanced level of
English and the only things I needed to
do were were you know just looking at
the test and understanding the tasks and
understanding how it's all structured so
it wouldn't be a surprise for me when I
come to the testing room and if you guys
have been learning English for quite a
while you've probably done all of the
tests that TOEFL and offers you to do
except for speaking because it's totally
you know but if you watch the video you
know how it how it all looks and if
you've been preparing already so if you
have a limited time I would advise like
for me was 10 days and I spent 6 to 8
hours every day maybe it would be
different for you but I would say no
less than 2 weeks
well 10 days was really severe I would
say and it was all over also Christmas
and years time rush
and wasn't really the best time to get
ready for for an exam but yeah I didn't
have a choice thing number five many
people just go online and download all
the books they can see like this book on
TOEFL this book on 12 all speaking this
book on TOEFL is saying you don't really
need that guys as I said the key to
passing TOEFL is having a good level of
English appropriate for the score that
you need to get and the second is just
sitting down and taking you know type
joyful practice test and you would be
good enough with just one book so I used
cracking the toy file I would find it
and give you a link below so if you
would be interested you could just buy
it and download it and it has everything
that you need it has a practice test it
has a lot of like reading section would
have a practice test speaking section we
have a practice test so you can just sit
down and do the tasks one by one and
another thing I would strongly advise
you to download is I
it's called Kaplan joyful preparation
but it's a program it's an excel file
for your PC or for Mac and it's actually
a simulation of TOEFL and this is very
good for speaking part because it also
has this countdown and it looks like the
actual test and it's really good if
you're nervous because then we would
have the real test and you would have
some time to sit down before your test
and actually take it at your home and
the you know the ui/ux everything would
be the same as in real time so I really
advise it to download it
I'll try to find the link but I think I
don't remember where I got it but you'll
see if I find it I will leave it below
as well so um once you figured out that
your level of English is good you have
the list of universities or you have the
exact score that you need to to get you
have this boot correcting the TOI full
now it's the time to actually sit down
and take the practice test and see what
which parts out the hardest for you so I
took my first practice test of soda
scars because everything was not perfect
at all it was really average and my
reading pod was really bad and my
speaking part was like the worst because
when I first circuit I thought while I
would never ever
able to do that so I decided to start
with the most difficult part for me and
this is actually the best strategy so
once you do the practice test you will
have the answers you will have
percentile that you're in for every
section and start with a hardest one so
what I did I did eight reading sections
one by one just I sat down and I just
did them because reading as I said if
you have enough English it was just easy
to do the tasks but you need to get used
to them so I did eight reading sections
and it eight speaking sections and yeah
just stuff so after that I was you know
pretty sure that I would be fine
doing TOEFL thing number seven have
somebody who could check your essays and
check your speaking part I can advise a
teacher that I've used to check my
essays and who actually helped me with a
speaking part a lot his name is Jonathan
he's from California and he trades
people for TOEFL so I leave the link
below as well I think all the links
below would be like wow a lot but I hope
this will be useful guys another advice
is do tour for two to three times before
you do the actual test so maybe even
before your scheduled I don't know how
it looks in your country but for us
there was a really big line so I had to
kind of set the date for TOEFL and a
week before that I did three different
tests so three tiles and now it just
gave me the feeling of reassurance that
I'm able to sit through the exam for
three hours I'm able to you know process
without food which is really difficult
for me somehow so just couple of last
advice take some chocolate riff here
take some water and I'm so happy guys
you watch this video up to the very end
so I'm going to give you a life hack so
the life hack is June joyful you would
have reading part listening part and
then you would have a break so make sure
you don't come back first from the break
I was coming back to the class and I was
fifth and there were other people who
already started their speaking part and
for me in speaking the first and second
questions for the toughest because they
ask you some weird questions are like
why you know
rock music I never talked about this so
and because I came fifth I was able to
hear for people who are already passing
the test and the test is all the same
for everyone and I already knew the
questions because they were answering
them and I was like oh great here's the
question so I just head back wrote the
question down rode my answer and then I
launched lunch DUP speaking part so yeah
obviously go to give this a nice but
this is how it work for me and so guys
I'm really happy you watch this up to
the very end please share with me while
you're passing TOEFL it's really
interesting because if you're getting
into some universities I'm I would be
able to get to give you some advice
maybe make a separate video so please
tell me why you're passing TOEFL how
much you need to score and where you're
getting with it thank you so much again
subscribe to my channel and let's be in
touch good luck with your exams alright